We're gonna talk about head.
You've seen it already,
it's been in the logs.
You see this constant head dash whatever
branch name, it probably is a little
bit confusing when we had for those
that unfortunately, you don't get to see
this on the recording, but
we had a little bit of an oopsie-daisy.
I use some slick commands to undo it
by a head so you can do a lot with it.
It's awesome, but
you should rarely use it,
if you don't have to,
you should try not to play with it.
It always causes so many problems
the moment you start checking things out.
But if you know how to use it,
it's fantastic.
I use it all the time for
interactive rebasing.
I'll do like a head till D6.
I'm able to squash everything,
it's fantastic, but it can also be a pain.
So throughout this course
you'll see you'll see this.
So what is head?
We can do some experimenting.
So what I want you to do is I
want you to check out trunk and
then I want you to execute log one line.
And I'll add a little one line there.
You'll see head points to trunk.
Everyone should see that.
Let's do it again,
I want you to check out foo, and
then I want you to do
another git log one line.
So git checkout foo, git log one line.
Again, heads now pointing to foo.
So it's like every time
we change branches,
notice that head's pointing to
whatever branch we have checked out.
Okay, this is important.
Go check out the Git folder and
tell me what head is pointing to.
So if you go in here and you go ls git,
you'll see that like named item
is just a top level item in git.
So if I cat, .git/HEAD,
my goodness, just autocomplete.
You'll see right here, it's a ref to foo.
That's all it is, it's just this
thing that exists right there.
It's just a pointer to whatever
you're currently using.
It's really nice, once you see
that it's just not that magical.
That means if I go cat refs or
git/refs/heads/foo,
you'll see it's just a commit,
like we're walking through,
starting at head all the way
to the exact commit.
And that means I could reconstruct
the repo now that I have this commit, and
we did that earlier.
So we can actually go all the way
from head to the exact file
that we want to look at.
And so this is kind of how that works.
It's just good to have in
your head how it works.
Didn't even know that was gonna come out.
All right, here we go, RefLog.
It's actually not a wizard's tool.
It's just not.
It feels magical, but
it's very one-dimensional.
So Reflog just shows
you where head's been.
So, give reflog a try.
I just, told you,
I unfortunately just ruined the moment.
Just execute git.reflog and
just look at it and
see that it followed how
you've changed your branch.
So if I do it, if I go, git reflog.
You'll see that, look at that, moving from
trunk to foo, from foo rebase to trunk.
You can just watch me
change each one of these.
And it comes with the commit shot for
each one of those items.
This is when I was at B.
Remember when we goofed things
up way earlier in the repo,
you can actually see me doing
what's it called, a reset,
you can actually watch me
do all my oopsy daisies.
We redid everything right here.
Look at that, so you can actually see
the entire history of all decisions
you've made in your repo
by looking at Reflog.
All it is is just simply
the log of where you've moved.
That's it.
Nothing magical about it,
it's very, very simple.
All right, do you think you can find
where reflog is stored in the git folder?
Is it a log?
How do they store it?
All right, so if I go here and I go
like this if I just ls git, you'll see,
look at that, there's a logs folder,
that feels pretty serendipitous, right?
So what's in the old logs folder?
Well, look at that,
there's one called head.
What do you think is in that file?
Let's just pretend that I don't know.
And let's count it out.
Does that not look pretty dang familiar?
Reflog is just prettifying this file.
At least in its default basic usage,
there's a lot of options.
There's always a lot of options, in fact,
you can even use git log to create
reflog with a whole bunch of options.
But we're not gonna do that.
Just this right here is
as simple as it gets.
At AOL, yeah, I did AOL.
For those that are laughing,
I did aol.com, I thought it was funny.
It's a great email, okay?
All right, solution.
You can do a reflog -3 and you can
actually see three lines of your reflogs.
So if you don't want the whole thing
you just wanna see a little bit,
you can actually give it
how many lines you want.
So if I go git ref log -3, I see three.
That means if I cat out my head and go,
tail -3, you can see the last three and
you'll notice they kind of look,
they're the same, right?
You can see here moving from trunk to foo.
Moving from trunk to foo.
So there you go, it's inverted.
The last line of the file is
the first line in the reflog.
It just takes the file and
inverts it, that is it.
So there you go.
Now, hopefully again, the magic is being
slowly spoiled and now the real magic
happens, which is how simple git actually
is and how powerful it really is.
That's where the real magic is,
is in the use.